add 5.1 release note text (#1867)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/5.1/release-notes/5.1.0.md

---

> # Corda 5.1.0 Release Notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Corda 5.1 Release Notes
```
You have 5.1 everywhere else. Is there a reason it's 5.1.0 here?

This page lists the key changes in the 5.1 release of Corda and contains the following:

* [Enhancements](#enhancements)
* [Fixed Issues](#fixed-issues)
* [Known Issues and Limitations](#known-issues-and-limitations)

For information about upgrading a Corda Cluster from 5.0 to 5.1, see [Upgrading from 5.0]({{< relref "../deploying-operating/deployment/upgrading/_index.md" >}}).

## Enhancements

### Architecture

#### Java 17

Corda components are now hosted in a Java 17 compatible JVM.

#### Workers

The following new types of workers have been added:

* Persistence workers
* Uniqueness workers
* Flow mapper workers
* Verification workers
* Token selection workers

#### Logging

The default log4j configuration was modified to print exception stack traces as text blob within the JSON log message.

### CorDapp Development

#### Logging for Finality Flows

The ID in logs written for finality flows has been made consistent.

> #### Group Parameters
> 
> A new interface, `GroupParametersLookup`, has been added to the `net.corda.v5.membership` package to enable flows to access `GroupParameters` for further verification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Group Parameters

A new interface, `GroupParametersLookup`, has been added to the `net.corda.v5.membership` package to enable flows to access current `GroupParameters` for further verification.
```

#### findUnconsumedStatesByType Performance

> The performance of the retrieval of unconsumed states in the `findUnconsumedStatesByType` query has been improved. As a result, it it is now more efficient to scan the table with an index on `utxo_visible_transaction_state.consumed`.

Reviewer 2: This function gets deprecated with 5.1. Probably, I would not mention it here.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we shold rather mentioned that it has been deprecated for removal in 5.2? I am not even sure its performance has been improved?

Author: This was added for this ticket: https://r3-cev.atlassian.net/browse/CORE-15504

Reviewer 3: Sorry, that was a misunderstanding presented by JIRA... one of those is a sub-task of the other, and they really are the same story.
Yes, `findUnconsumedStatesByExactType` replaces `findUnconsumedStatesByType`, we couldn't improve the performance without changing the behaviour.

Author: Updated 👍

> The performance of the retrieval of unconsumed states in the `findUnconsumedStatesByType` query has been improved. As a result, it it is now more efficient to scan the table with an index on `utxo_visible_transaction_state.consumed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The performance of the retrieval of unconsumed states in the `findUnconsumedStatesByType` query has been improved. As a result, it is now more efficient to scan the table with an index on `utxo_visible_transaction_state.consumed`.
```

#### FindUnconsumedByExactType

A new `FindUnconsumedByExactType` function has been added. The performance of this new function is greater than `FindUnconsumedByType` because it uses the index search that retrieves the given exact-type states (not including subclass states).

> #### Verification
> 
> Verification functionality has been added to a new `TransactionSignatureVerificationService` interface. This enables it to be injected separately in the verification sandbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Transaction Signature Verification

Signature Verification functionality has been added to a new `TransactionSignatureVerificationService` interface. This enables it to be injected separately in the verification sandbox.
```

> #### Notary Signed Group Parameters
> 
> Signed group parameters are now distributed via backchain resolution to allow notary verification for historic transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Signed Group Parameters

Signed group parameters are now distributed via backchain resolution to allow notary continuity verification for historic transactions.
```

#### Token Selection Visibility

You can now specify that a state is eligible for selection by implementing the `isVisible` method on the states' contract. This replaces `isRelevant`.

#### Vault-Named Queries

The following changes have been made for vault-named queries:

* Vault-named query expressions now parse `:parameter` and `::int` within parentheses correctly.
* It is now possible to query by `StateRef`. States are now stored in a `stateRef` field under the `ContractState` JSON object.

#### CorDapp API Deprecated Items

The following methods are deprecated in this release:

* `findUnconsumedStatesByType`
* `useAndRelease`

The `UtxoLedgerTokenStateObserver` interface has been deprecated. Use `UtxoTokenTransactionStateObserver` instead.

### Deployment

> #### Pre-install Checks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Pre-Install Checks
```
Same as here: https://nadine.preview.docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/5.1/deploying-operating/deployment/deploying.html#pre-install-checks

#### Re-registering Members

Members can now modify custom metadata, CPI version, platform version, and software version of the `memberInfo` and request to re-register into the network. Re-registration follows the same process as registration, where it may require manual approval depending on the configuration of the network. For more information, see [Re-register a Member]({{< relref "../application-networks/creating/members/reregister.md" >}}). Upgrading a CPI now triggers the member to re-register with the MGM. This ensures the MGM has the correct information about the CPIs that virtual nodes are running.

#### Notary Ledger Keys

Notary virtual nodes no longer require a ledger key when onboarding to an application network. Corda now rejects any registrations of notary virtual nodes that contain ledger keys.

#### Managing Members

`serial-number` is now mandatory when suspending or re-activating a member.

#### REST API Improvements

* A new version of the REST API, v5_1, is included in this release.

> Old endpoints from v1 work in 5.1 but a warning will be written to the REST Worker log and in the HTTP response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Old endpoints from v1 work in 5.1 but a warning is written to the REST Worker log and in the HTTP response.
```

* The `certificates` and `keys` endpoints have been renamed to `certificate` and `key.`
* The `GET/hsm/{tenantid}/{category}` endpoint now returns an HTTP 404 status if the category does not exist.
* The `loginname` parameter of the GET user endpoint has been changed to a path parameter.

> * The `members` endpoint now returns the `MemberInfo` for the member on behalf of who the lookup is performed even if the member has a status of suspended. This ensures that a member is able to check their status at any point in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `members` endpoint now returns the `MemberInfo` for the member on behalf of whom the lookup is performed even if the member has a status of suspended. This ensures that a member is able to check their status at any point in time.
```

> * The upgrade virtual node endpoint `/api/v5_1/virtualnode/{virtualnodeshortid}/cpi/{targetcpifilechecksum}` now takes an optional query parameter, `forceupgrade`. Set this to `true` if a previous upgrade attempt failed. The default value is false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The upgrade virtual node endpoint `/api/v5_1/virtualnode/{virtualnodeshortid}/cpi/{targetcpifilechecksum}` now takes an optional query parameter, `forceupgrade`. Set this to `true` if a previous upgrade attempt failed. The default value is `false`.
```

* A new endpoint has been added that returns the result of a flow as JSON: `/flow/{holdingidentityshorthash}/{clientrequestid}/result`.

## Fixed Issues

### Custom Ledger Queries

In some instances, ledger custom queries that used paging skipped rows of data if any of the fields in the query where-clause changed.

> This most commonly occurred if the query used the `consumed` field as part of the where clause and one or more of the states in a previously retrieved page were consumed prior to the final page of the query being returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This most commonly occurred if the query used the `consumed` field as part of the where-clause and one or more of the states in a previously retrieved page were consumed prior to the final page of the query being returned.
```
